"There is no such thing as a fully trustless instituation or technology" said Nick Szabo in 95's. Electronic Transactions in bitcoin can be trsuted as a valid withou a discrete trustworthy third party or government or bank. This is indeed a drastic change.

The blockchain was developed in response to trust failures, but it can also be the cause of failure. 

QuadrigaCX is the largest cryptocurrency exchange in Canada. It allows customers to trade fiat currencies for cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin and ether. In May 2017, ether worth about $14 million at contemporary exchange rates became inaccessible due to a programming error.If this were traditional money sitting in a vault or the electronic records of a bank, there would be no problem. The bank by definition would have custody over the funds. It would have the ability—even if it were reluctant or legally restrained in exercising it—to release the funds. But that is exactly the form of “relying on trust” that Satoshi negated.The point here is not just that QuadrigaCX’s customers trusted the exchange, which let them down. They did, and it did. Those customers also trusted a system that made it impossible for QuadrigaCX to recover their funds once they are cryptographically locked away. This is the dark side of immutability. 

The second biggest misunderstanding of Satoshi’s legacy, after the belief that trust is a solved problem, is the belief that humans are a solved problem. Even when the guts of the system involve rigorously logical computers interacting through precise machine transactions, people are not irrelevant. Blockchains exist to solve human problems and power human activity. They can never fully escape human messiness. Nor should they want to.

Blockchain-based systems are not invulnerable. At the most general level, distributed ledgers depend on modern cryptographic techniques such as secure hashing algorithms. Basic vulnerabilities in these mechanisms cannot be ruled out, especially with advances in computing power. Quantum computers, for example, might be able to break encryption methods that the most powerful conventional computers cannot crack. If such flaws exist, however, they will apply at least as strongly to the existing online transactional systems, which rely on the same cryptography. And the blockchain world has attracted some of the world’s foremost computer scientists, who are working actively to prevent such failures. Platforms such as Ethereum, for example, are already incorporating quantum resistance into their designs, even though workable quantum cryptographic computers are still some way off.
According to a group of leading researchers in 2015, we do not yet have sufficient understanding to conclude with confidence that Bitcoin will continue to work well in practice as in the future.